# TopicModelling-Dissertation
Dissertation- Exploring Topic Modeling Approaches: Unraveling the 2020 US Presidential Election Discourse with BERTopic, Top2Vec, and LDA

Social media is continuously evolving, and Twitter has played an important role in influencing the ideology and minds of the platform’s user. Many political parties' ideology, movements, decisions, history affect the party’s chance of getting votes and recognition from people. Understanding the underlying themes discussed by twitter users can help to understand the peoples’ stand for the given presidential candidate and help to improve their chances by adopting suitable measures. Topic modelling is the approach through which you can find the latent topic in the tweets which are tagged by the hashtag relevant to the party or candidate or tweets discussing relevant topics. There are many models for topic modelling which use different approaches like BERTopic which uses BERT for contextualized embedding, Top2Vec uses document embedding and Latent Dirichlet Allocation. Each model uses different approaches to give different topic labels which are human understandable and represent the documents. BERTopic, Top2Vec and LDA are adopted to find the underlying topics in the twitter dataset for 2020 US presidential election. Analyzing and comparing these models helps us understand how these models work and which has better performance among these. The analysis will help us understand contextual embedding topic model will give more coherent topics that were discussed in the tweets. After comparing and analyzing it was observed that BERTopic performed better than Top2Vec and LDA with highest coherence score of 0.75 and highest accuracy, F1, precision and recall value. It gives more coherent topics than the other model.
